Alright! In this video, we are going to
take a look at implementing the Patch
Mapping, but this time, for vendors. And so,
it's going to follow along the same
template, that we set up for categories,
but this time, we're going to go ahead
and do the implementation for a vendors.
I'm going to step you through that. So,
first thing we want to do is write our
test. I'm going to bring this up and I'm
going to go to a split screen on this again,
so I'm going to split it horizontally and
bring up our category patch test up here.
So here, remember, we had testPatchWith
Changes and testPatchNoChanges. So,
let's go ahead and we'll get those
implemented for this. And remember, it's
very similar to the update method. So, I'm
going to copy that over
and let's do a testPachVendor, and we will say with changes.
I'm going to hold off on
implementing the other methods right now
because I don't want to see it fail.
We'll go ahead and do that. So, let's
change this to patch. We are going to
do a patch by some ID. And of course, this
will fail right now because we don't
have the VendorController implemented.
So, let's go ahead and implement that
method inside the VendorController. I'm
going to bring up the CategoryController, as well. So we can see here, I
have the PatchMapping. Let's grab
this and we will cut and paste. And
remember, cut and paste as evil. It really
can get you in a lot of trouble but I am
just expediting things here a little bit.
Let's do a patch here. So exactly
the same method signature, so
we're going to take in the String id, Vendor.
And now, here, let's go ahead and say
vendor foundVendor
and here again, we are as reactive so we
need to a block on that. So, we're going
to go in and tell it to block, which will
give us the Vendor object. Let's
simple a little bit of logic here.
Now here, we're saying that the first
names are different. We're going to go
ahead and patch it. So here, we want to
say foundVendor.
So, we're going to set it into the Vendor
object, that was passed in. I'm not going to
go through and implement conditional
logic on each property here. Primarily, I
want to show you how to set up the patch
method so the business logic would be
variable by the object that we're
dealing with. So, I'm not going to
implement every property on the Vendor
object at this point in time. If you want
to do that, go right ahead.
Could be a fun coding exercise. Now here,
we're going to say return.
So remember, we are going to save it, and
the save option is going to return
back a Mono of that. So now here, if we
fall through our conditional logic on
the patch, what we want to do is just
simply return back a new Mono
of the foundVendor.
So, that's going to say, basically, if our
conditional logic, if I implemented
everything for all the different
properties on the Vendor object, and we
didn't do any changes, we just want to
return back the foundVendor because
you patched something and there's no
changes that needed to occur. We're just
going to return back what we already
have in the database. So, that's perfectly
fine to do because we didn't make any
changes. But here, on line 54, if we do
make changes, we want to return back the
saved object that has been updated with
the patch to values. So, that works
there. So, let's go take a closer look at
our test. And this guy is going to fail.
And we know why already. Because we
are going to get a null object coming back
out of that. So, we can see that we have a
500 internal server error, and that is
because we are getting a null property
coming back. So, what happened is on the
vendorRepository findById, that's
returning back in null because we didn't
implement that in Mockito yet, so that's
a null object. Right here on the block,
that's why we're tossing that
NPE. So, let's go ahead and implement that
now.
And also, a part of the assignment
was to bring these into static imports.
So, that definitely is going to make our
code nice and clean.
So now, I would just say given.
findById will. We'll say anyString.
It's going to return back.
So, it's going to return back an empty
Vendor object.
In here, we are testing with changes. So, what
we want to say here, has changed this,
and actually, with this Mono, let's
change this so it would make it a little
more clear. Say firstName.
So the vendorRepository is going to return
back a Mono of Vendor with the firstName
of Jimmy, and the Mono that we're going
to pass in to update is going to have a
firstName of Jim, which is going to
cause us to update. Now, we also want to
verify that. So, remember here, we're
saying verify. We don't want to save that.
But here, we do want to verify the
save action has occurred. So, let's go
ahead and make sure that our method
returns back a save.
And any is going to work with. We could
do more explicit testing on that. So,
let's go ahead and run this now. Make
sure that runs,
and that did pass. So now, let's go ahead
and copy this. Modify that to make
sure that it behaves properly when
there's no changes. So, we'll change this
to without changes. And here, let's make
this Jimmy.
So now, we're going to pass, just to
recap here, we have a given vendor
Repository, findById. It's going to return
back a Vendor object with the firstName
of Jimmy, and we're going to pass in a
Vendor object to update, but he's also
going to have the firstName of Jimmy. So, no
update should occur. So, we are going to
say here
to make sure that that never occurs. So,
that save method is never going to occur
on this. Let's go ahead and run that.
And this did run. That looks like.
So, that actually did run. So, let's
take a closer look at this. So, I'm going to
set a breakpoint here. Let's go ahead and
run that now. I'm going to run it in the
debugger and take a closer look. That
foundVendor get firstName, vendor
get firstName.
So, we are
in the debugger this time. That was my
mistake. I clicked on the rerun failed
test rather than right rerun in
debugger. So now, I'm at the breakpoint so
I have foundVendor get firstName. So,
firstName is Jimmy. The vendor
is also Jimmy.
So, let's change this implementation here.
Maybe that equals. Implementation is not
behaving the way we want it.
Let's rerun this.
Okay. So, that not equals was not happy
there. So I changed it to the actual
equals, we're going to test the String
equality there. So now, they're
functioning properly. So, that was my
mistake. That was a kind of a rookie move
there, so should not caught that. So now,
let's go ahead. Go back here. Actually,
let's run all our tests. Make sure all
our tests are now passing.
Let's go ahead and just recap this real
quick here. Okay. So, down here, on
line 46, we implemented a PatchMapping
going against that api/v1/vendors ID
value. We're going to strip out the ID
value and bring that ID int and we're
going to look for an existing vendor based
on the ID value. Then, on 51, that's
where I'm going to implement my logic to
see if those properties have changed in
the vendor statement. And this section of
logic here, normally, I would extract that
out into a service layer and handle all
this interaction with the repository and
stuff into a service layer. But for this
example here, this is perfectly fine
to do in this example. But if I was
writing this for real code, just not for
demonstration code, I would move this
into a service layer because that is a
much better practice to be doing. Here,
this is my logic. Obviously, Vendor has
more properties in it. I'm not
implementing those in this
demonstration. You can, if you want. Add
in some more enhanced logic. So, if we do
the update, we are going to return back
the updated logic. If we fall through our
logic, we're just going to return back
the object that we found from the
database. So, in this case, it's
MongoDB. And then, in the test, we
implement two test here. You can see one
is with changes, and here, we're verifying
that vendorRepository save is called so
that we do save it. And then, we're also
testing the logic path without changes
and we are making sure that the vendor
Repository save method is not called
because we should not be persisting it,
so it's making sure that our logic, and
you saw there, as I was recording the
video, my logic was bad on equals method.
So, that unit test did catch that error
in my programming. So, a nice example
there of how that unit test actually
enhanced the quality of the code that
I'm writing.